Redrive on transient workflow-server transport failures instead of failing the run (#2445)
vercel/workflow: .changeset/transport-error-redrive.md

---
'@workflow/world-vercel': patch
'@workflow/core': patch
---

> Treat transient workflow-server transport failures (exhausted RetryAgent / `UND_ERR_REQ_RETRY`, dropped sockets, timeouts, firewall 429 challenges) as retryable: surface them as a `WorkflowWorldError` and redeliver via the queue — with backoff that ramps toward the visibility window — instead of failing the run. Stop retrying 429 in-process so firewall challenges surface immediately with the `x-vercel-mitigated` / `x-vercel-id` diagnostics rather than amplifying load.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Treat transient world-vercel transport failures as retryable, surfacing them as a `TRANSPORT` type `WorkflowWorldError`, to be retried by the queue instead of failing the run.
```

Author: Applied — the changeset is now exactly this single sentence (matches your committed suggestion in bd9919f7d). The branch has also been brought up to date with `main` (the earlier "Update branch" merge was ~76 commits stale); conflicts in `http-client.ts` and `step-executor.ts` were resolved against `main`'s refactors while preserving the 429-drop and the throw-on-`step_started` behavior.

> Treat transient workflow-server transport failures — an exhausted RetryAgent (`UND_ERR_REQ_RETRY`, e.g. a firewall shedding load with 429/503), dropped sockets, connect/DNS failures, and timeouts — as retryable: world-vercel maps them to a `TRANSPORT` `WorkflowWorldError`, and the runtime redelivers the queue message for a fast redrive instead of failing the run. Also surface the Vercel firewall `x-vercel-mitigated` (`challenge`/`deny`) header in error diagnostics and logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Treat transient workflow-server transport failures as retryable, surfacing them as a `TRANSPORT` type `WorkflowWorldError`, to be retried by the queue instead of failing the run. Surface the Vercel firewall `x-vercel-mitigated`  header in diagnostics.
```

Author: Adopted a terser changeset along these lines in 5f02af467 — kept it to two sentences, folding in the 429 / backoff scope this revision added on top of the original transport mapping.

Reviewer: It's exactly the same word count as before lol
